Add docs and guide for MLflow Gateway (#8763)
mlflow/mlflow: docs/source/gateway/index.rst

Reviewer: /ai review this and suggest improvements

a unified endpoint to handle all language model requests.

A major advantage of using the MLflow AI Gateway service is its centralized management of API keys.
By storing these keys in one secure location, organizations can significantly enhance their
security posture by minimizing the exposure of sensitive API keys throughout the system. It also
helps to prevent exposing these keys within code or requiring end-users to manage keys safely.

The gateway is designed to be flexible and adaptable, capable of easily defining and managing routes by updating the
configuration file. This enables the easy incorporation
of new providers or provider model types into the system without necessitating changes to
applications that interface with the gateway. This level of adaptability makes the MLflow AI Gateway
Service an invaluable tool in environments that require agility and quick response to changes.

This simplification and centralization of language model interactions, coupled with the added
layer of security for API key management, make the MLflow AI Gateway service an ideal choice for
organizations that use language models on a regular basis.

> 

Reviewer 2: Can we mention LLMs multiple times in this preamble for SEO?

.. contents:: Table of Contents
  :local:

>   :depth: 3

Reviewer 2: Can we remove the TOC tree? We already have it on the left side of the page, and this adds to the page length

.. _gateway-concepts:

> Concepts

Reviewer 2: Can we add a "Quickstart" section above concepts that provides a very simple way for users to get started. I.e. just link them to the examples folder in the GitHub repo and tell them what code to run?

========

> AI Gateway Configuration

Reviewer 2: Configuration, client APIs, etc. aren't really concepts. The concepts are routes, models, and providers. Following from https://github.com/mlflow/mlflow/pull/8763/files#r1253853120, can we move those concepts into this section?

For the rest of the content, can we create two top level sections?

```
Configuring the Gateway
===================
```

```
Querying the Gateway
================
```

------------------------

The MLflow AI Gateway service relies on a user-provided configuration file, written in YAML,
that defines the routes and providers available to the service. The configuration file dictates
how the gateway interacts with various language model providers and determines the end-points that
users can access.

.. note::

    The configuration for the MLflow AI Gateway on `Databricks` is not performed with the use of a YAML configuration file. Rather, there are specific APIs that are used for management of the AI Gateway routes within `Databricks`.

>     Please consult the official `Databricks documentation <https://docs.databricks.com/machine-learning/index.html>`_ for guidance on configuring routes within `Databricks`.

Reviewer 2: We won't be documenting these at https://docs.databricks.com/machine-learning/index.html for now (i.e. this isn't quite the link we want to use).

Instead, can we add Databricks-specific info for configuring gateway routes to the quickstart (https://github.com/mlflow/mlflow/pull/8763/files#r1253855943)?

- **route_type**: This specifies the type of service offered by this route. This determines the interface for inputs to a route and the returned outputs. Current supported route types are:

  - "llm/v1/completions"
  - "llm/v1/chat"
  - "llm/v1/embeddings"

- **model**: This defines the provider-specific details of the language model. It contains the following fields:

  - **provider**: This indicates the provider of the AI model. It accepts the following values:

    - "openai"
    - "anthropic"
    - "cohere"
    - "azure" / "azuread"

  - **name**: This is an optional field to specify the name of the model.
  - **config**: This contains provider-specific configuration details.

Provider-Specific Configuration Parameters
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

OpenAI
++++++

- **openai_api_key**: This is the API key for the OpenAI service. It is a required field.
- **openai_api_type**: This is an optional field to specify the type of OpenAI API to use.
- **openai_api_base**: This is the base URL for the OpenAI API. By default, it is set to "https://api.openai.com/v1".
- **openai_api_version**: This is an optional field to specify the OpenAI API version.

> - **openai_organization**: This is an optional field to specify the organization in OpenAI.

Reviewer: Can we use a table instead of a list?

Reviewer: /ai This is a list in reStructuredText. Please this to a table with parameter, required, default, and description columns.

Reviewer: /ai This is a list in reStructuredText. Please convert this to a table with parameter, required, default, and description columns.

Author: Great idea!

Cohere

> ++++++

Reviewer: Can we isolate each provider in a different file?

> - **api_key**: This is the API key for the Cohere service. It is a required field.
> - **api_base**: This is the base URL for the Cohere API. By default, it is set to "https://api.cohere.ai/v1".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **cohere_api_key**: This is the API key for the Cohere service. It is a required field.
- **cohere_api_base**: This is the base URL for the Cohere API. By default, it is set to "https://api.cohere.ai/v1".
```

@harupy changed these :). We should also update our examples accordingly

> - **api_base**: This is the base URL for the Cohere API. By default, it is set to "https://api.cohere.ai/v1".

Reviewer 2: @BenWilson2 @harupy Is there a use case for configuring the Cohere / Anthropic API base? For OpenAI, I get it, since we have Azure. For Cohere / Anthropic, I think there's only one base? We aren't supporting base configuration on Databricks.

Unless I'm missing something, can we remove API base configuration for Cohere / Anthropic?

Reviewer 2: @harupy removed these in https://github.com/mlflow/mlflow/pull/8967#pullrequestreview-1515677726. Can we remove them from the docs?

Anthropic
+++++++++

- **anthropic_api_key**: This is the API key for the Anthropic service. It is a required field.

> - **anthropic_api_base**: This is the base URL for the Anthropic API. By default, it is set to "https://api.anthropic.com/".

Reviewer 2: Can we add example configs for these?

Azure OpenAI
++++++++++++

> Azure provides two different mechanisms for integrating with OpenAI, each corresponding to a different type of security validation. One relies on an access token for validation, referred to as "azure", while the other uses Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) integration for authentication, termed as "azuread".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Azure provides two different mechanisms for integrating with OpenAI, each corresponding to a different type of security validation. One relies on an access token for validation, referred to as ``"azure"``, while the other uses Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) integration for authentication, termed as ``"azuread"``.
```

To match your user's interaction and security access requirements, adjust the ``openai_api_type`` parameter to represent the preferred security validation model. This will ensure seamless interaction and reliable security for your Azure-OpenAI integration.

- **openai_api_key**: This is the API key for the Azure OpenAI service. It is a required field.

> - **openai_api_type**: When using the Azure integration with OpenAI, this field is required and must be either "azure" or "azuread" depending on the security access protocol being used. This is a required field.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **openai_api_type**: When using the Azure integration with OpenAI, this field is required and must be either ``"azure"`` or ``"azuread"`` depending on the security access protocol being used. This is a required field.
```

- **openai_api_version**: The version of the Azure OpenAI service to utilize as specified by a date. It is a required field.
- **openai_deployment_name**: This is a name of the deployment resource for the Azure OpenAI service. It is a required field.
- **openai_organization**: This is an optional field to specify the organization in OpenAI.

An example configuration for Azure OpenAI is:

.. code-block:: yaml

    routes:
      - name: completions
        route_type: llm/v1/completions
        model:
          provider: openai
          name: gpt-4
          config:
            openai_api_type: "azuread"
            openai_api_key: $AZURE_AAD_TOKEN
            openai_deployment_name: "{your_deployment_name}"
            openai_api_base: "https://{your_resource_name}-azureopenai.openai.azure.com/"
            openai_api_version: "2023-05-15"

.. note::

    Azure OpenAI has disctinct features as compared with the direct OpenAI service. For an overview, please see `the comparison documentation <https://learn.microsoft.com/en-gb/azure/cognitive-services/openai/how-to/switching-endpoints>`_.

For specifying an API key, there are three options:

> 1. (Preferred) Use an environment variable to store the API key and reference it in the YAML configuration file. This is denoted by a "$" symbol before the name of the environment variable.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. (Preferred) Use an environment variable to store the API key and reference it in the YAML configuration file. This is denoted by a ``$`` symbol before the name of the environment variable.
```

2. (Preferred) Define the API key in a file and reference the location of that key-bearing file within the YAML configuration file.
3. Directly include it in the YAML configuration file.

.. important::

    The use of environment variables or file-based keys is recommended for better security practices. If the API key is directly included in the configuration file, it should be ensured that the file is securely stored and appropriately access controlled.
    Please ensure that the configuration file is stored in a secure location as it contains sensitive API keys.

> AI Gateway Security Considerations

Reviewer 2: Can we move this subsection to the bottom and link to it from the `AI Gateway Configuration` section?

     - ✓
   * - llm/v1/completions
     - Cohere
     - command, command-light-nightly
     - ✓
   * - llm/v1/completions
     - Azure OpenAI
     - text-davinci-003, gpt-35-turbo
     - ✓
   * - llm/v1/chat
     - OpenAI
     - gpt-3.5-turbo, gpt-4
     - ✓
   * - llm/v1/chat
     - Anthropic
     -
     - ✗
   * - llm/v1/chat
     - Cohere
     -
     - ✗
   * - llm/v1/chat
     - Azure OpenAI
     - gpt-35-turbo, gpt-4
     - ✓
   * - llm/v1/embeddings
     - OpenAI
     - text-embedding-ada-002
     - ✓
   * - llm/v1/embeddings
     - Anthropic
     -
     - ✗
   * - llm/v1/embeddings
     - Cohere
     - embed-english-v2.0, embed-multilingual-v2.0
     - ✓
   * - llm/v1/embeddings
     - Azure OpenAI
     - text-embedding-ada-002
     - ✓

Within each model block in the configuration file, the provider field is used to specify the name
of the provider for that model. This is a string value that needs to correspond to a provider the MLflow AI Gateway supports.

Here's an example of a provider configuration within a route:

.. code-block:: yaml

    routes:
        - name: chat
          type: llm/v1/chat
          model:
            provider: openai

>             name: gpt-4

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            name: gpt-3.5-turbo
```

            config:
              openai_api_base: https://api.openai.com/v1
              openai_api_key: $OPENAI_API_KEY

In the above configuration, ``openai`` is the `provider` for the model.

As of now, the MLflow AI Gateway supports the following providers:

* **openai**: This is used for models offered by `OpenAI <https://platform.openai.com/>`_.
* **anthropic**: This is used for models offered by `Anthropic <https://docs.anthropic.com/claude/docs>`_.
* **cohere**: This is used for models offered by `Cohere <https://docs.cohere.com/docs>`_.

> * **azure** / **azuread**: This is used for model services offered by `Azure <https://learn.microsoft.com/en-gb/azure/cognitive-services/openai/>`_.

Reviewer 2: Nit: These aren't providers, they're just `openai_api_type` specs for `openai`. Can we instead say that `**openai**` (line 420) supports OpenAI, Azure OpenAI, and Azure OpenAI with AAD?

More providers are being added continually. Check the latest version of the MLflow AI Gateway Docs for the
most up-to-date list of supported providers.

Remember, the provider you specify must be one that the MLflow AI Gateway supports. If the provider

> is not supported, the Gateway will return an error when trying to route requests to that provider.

Reviewer 2: IMO these should go to the top of the `Concepts` section

Author: agreed :)

* **Request Handling**: When a user sends a request to the MLflow AI Gateway, it takes the request, adds the necessary authentication (using the API keys it manages), and forwards the request to the correct provider (as specified in the configuration files).

* **Response Forwarding**: The Gateway receives the response from the provider and then sends this response back to the user.

By centralizing key management, the MLflow AI Gateway dramatically reduces the risk of keys being
lost, misused, or accessed by unauthorized individuals. This approach also simplifies the process
for end users - they no longer need to worry about managing API keys and can instead focus on
making requests and working with the responses.

This centralized system allows you to change providers or models easily. If you need
to switch models or update API keys, you can do so in a central location without requiring any
changes from your end users. This makes the MLflow AI Gateway a robust and versatile solution for

> API key management and service integration within your organization.

Reviewer 2: I think we can remove this section for now. The routes / providers / models / configuration section should be enough

AI Gateway Server
-----------------
For some users, it might be preferable to interface directly with the MLflow AI Gateway server using the REST API.

> This provides flexibility and allows for a broader range of interactions that may not be covered by the ``client`` or ``fluent`` APIs.

Reviewer 2: I think we can remove this

FastAPI Documentation ("/docs")
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

FastAPI, the framework used for building the MLflow AI Gateway, provides an automatic interactive API
documentation interface, which is accessible at the "/docs" endpoint (e.g., "http://my.gateway:9000/docs").
This interactive interface is very handy for exploring and testing the available API endpoints.

As a convenience, accessing the root URL (e.g., "http://my.gateway:9000") redirects to this "/docs" endpoint.

Gateway Health ("/health")
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The "/health" endpoint (e.g., "http://my.gateway:9000/health") is used for health checking the
Gateway Server. It returns a 200 OK HTTP response if the server is running and healthy.

> This endpoint is particularly useful for monitoring and alerting systems that check service health.

Reviewer 2: I think we can remove this. Most users probably won't call it, and folks who really care will find it in the `/docs`

Routes
~~~~~~
Routes are the core functionality of the MLflow AI Gateway. They're the conduits through which requests
are routed to specific models, and their configurations provide flexibility to the AI Gateway.

The Routes API provides a suite of endpoints for interacting with the routes configured on the Gateway Server:

* ``GET /gateway/routes/{route_name}`` [GetRoute]: This endpoint returns the configuration for the specified route. Replace {route_name} with the name of the route you wish to retrieve.

* ``GET /gateway/routes`` [SearchRoutes]: This endpoint returns a list of all configured routes on the Gateway Server.

> * ``POST /gateway/routes/{route_name}`` [QueryRoute]: This endpoint is used to submit a query to a specific route. Replace {route_name} with the name of the route you wish to query. The request payload must include the data to be passed to the model. This will depend on the specific model, and should match the structure detailed in the route configuration.

Reviewer 2: This is duplicated

> Additional Databricks-only Routes

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Additional Databricks-only APIs
```

Calling these routes would be a bit overloaded / misleading

* ``POST /api/2.0/gateway/routes`` **Databricks-only API** [CreateRoute]: This endpoint creates a new route based on the provided configuration.

An example usage of the ``CreateRoute`` API in Databricks is:

.. code-block:: python

    import requests

    url = "https://<your workspace>.databricks.com/api/2.0/gateway/routes"

    data = {
        "name": "my-completions",
        "route_type": "llm/v1/completions",
        "model": {
            "name": "text-davinci-003",
            "provider": "openai",
            "openai_config": {"openai_api_key": "<redacted secret key>"},
        },
    }

    response = requests.post(url, headers=headers, json=data)

* ``DELETE /api/2.0/gateway/routes`` **Databricks-only API** [DeleteRoute]: This endpoint deletes a route from the AI Gateway service based on the provided name.

An example usage of the ``DeleteRoute`` API in Databricks is:

.. code-block:: python

    import requests

    url = "https://<your workspace>.databricks.com/api/2.0/gateway/routes"

    data = {
        "name": "my-completions",
    }

>     requests.delete(url, headers=headers, json=data)

Reviewer 2: Can we show these examples with the MLflow client instead?

Using these endpoints, you can interact directly with the Gateway Server from any platform or language
that supports HTTP, providing a powerful and flexible way to leverage the functionality of the MLflow AI Gateway.

Examples of Get Requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
You can use the GET requests to retrieve information about the routes. The routes endpoint is
located at "/gateway/routes". You can retrieve information about all routes or a specific route by
appending the route name to the end of the URL.

Get all routes:

.. code-block:: bash

    curl -X GET http://my.gateway:9000/gateway/routes

This command will return a JSON object containing all routes currently configured on the Gateway Server.

If you know the name of the route you're interested in, you can append it to the routes endpoint.
For example, to get information about the route named ``completions``, you would use the following command:

.. code-block:: bash

    curl -X GET http://my.gateway:9000/gateway/routes/completions

> This command will return a JSON object with the configuration details for the completions route.

Reviewer 2: We have a separate REST API section down below. I think we can remove this.

Examples of Post Requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
You can use the POST request to send a query to a specific route.
To send a query to a specific route, append the route name to the routes endpoint, and include the
data to be sent in the body of the request. The structure of this data will depend on the specific model the route is configured for.

For instance, to send a query to the completions route, you might use the following command:

.. code-block:: bash

>     curl -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{"prompt": "It is a truth universally acknowledged"}' http://my.gateway:9000/gateway/routes/completions

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    curl -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{"prompt": "It is a truth universally acknowledged"}' http://my.gateway:9000/gateway/routes/completions/invocations
```

This will return a JSON object with the response from the completions model, which is usually the continuation of the text provided as a prompt.

**Note:** Please remember to replace "http://my.gateway:9000" with the URL of your actual Gateway Server.

> Client API

Reviewer 2: Can we combine the `Client API` and `Fluent API` sections into an `MLflow Python Client APIs` section that includes a *brief* explanation of what the fluent & client APIs are and shows *one* example API call for fluent and *one* for client?

* ``Completions``

.. code-block:: bash

    curl -X POST http://my.gateway:8888/query/completions -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{"prompt": "Describe the probability distribution of first generation decay chain fission byproducts from a pressurized water nuclear reactor that uses 70% U-235 and 30% U-238"}'

* ``Chat``

.. code-block:: bash

    curl -X POST http://my.gateway:8888/query/chat -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{"messages": [{"role": "user", "content": "Can you write a limerick about orange flavored popsicles?"}]}'

* ``Embeddings``

.. code-block:: bash

    curl -X POST http://my.gateway:8888/query/embeddings -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{"texts": ["I'd like to return my shipment of beanie babies, please", "Can I please speak to a human now?"]}'

These examples cover the primary ways you might interact with the MLflow AI Gateway via its REST API.

**Note:** Please remember to replace "http://my.gateway:8888" with the URL of your actual MLflow AI Gateway Server.

MLflow AI Gateway API Documentation
===================================

`API documentation <./api.html>`_

.. _gateway-guide:

Guide

> =====

Reviewer 2: I think this belongs as a "quickstart" section right above `Concepts`

The following guide will assist you in getting up and running, using a 3-route configuration to
OpenAI services for chat, completions, and embeddings.

Step 1: Install the MLflow AI Gateway service
---------------------------------------------
First, you need to install the MLflow AI Gateway service on your machine. You can do this using pip from PyPI or from the MLflow repository.

> Installing from Pypi (recommended)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Installing from PyPI (recommended)
```

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: sh

    pip install 'mlflow[gateway]'

Installing from a repository fork (for latest updates)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: sh

>     pip install -e '.[gateway]'

Reviewer 2: We can remove this; power users will figure this out, and we don't want to encourage folks to install from master...stuff will probably break.

.. code-block:: yaml

    routes:
      - name: completions
        type: llm/v1/completions
        model:
          provider: openai
          name: gpt-3.5-turbo
          config:
            openai_api_base: https://api.openai.com/v1
            openai_api_key: $OPENAI_API_KEY

      - name: chat
        type: llm/v1/chat
        model:
          provider: openai
          name: gpt-3.5-turbo
          config:
            openai_api_base: https://api.openai.com/v1
            openai_api_key: $OPENAI_API_KEY

      - name: embeddings
        type: llm/v1/embeddings
        model:
          provider: openai
          name: text-embedding-ada-002
          config:
            openai_api_base: https://api.openai.com/v1
            openai_api_key: $OPENAI_API_KEY

Save this file to a location on the system that is going to be running the MLflow AI Gateway server.

Step 4: Start the Gateway Service
---------------------------------
You're now ready to start the Gateway service!

Use the ``MLflow AI Gateway start`` command and specify the path to your configuration file:

.. code-block:: sh

>     MLflow AI Gateway start --config-path config.yaml --port {port} --host {host} --workers {worker count}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    mlflow gateway start --config-path config.yaml --port {port} --host {host} --workers {worker count}
```

Step 6: Send Requests to Routes via REST API
--------------------------------------------
You can now send requests to the exposed routes. Here's an example of how to send a request using Python:

**Note:** Replace "http://localhost:5000/gateway/routes/completions" with the URL of your Gateway service and
the route you want to send a request to. You can replace completions with chat or embeddings to send requests to those routes.

.. code-block:: python

    import requests

    data = {
        "prompt": "Is this a test?",
    }

    response = requests.post(
        "http://localhost:5000/gateway/routes/completions",
        json=data,
    )

    print(response.json())

The response printed to ``stdout`` will be:

.. code-block:: python

    {
        "candidates": [
            {
                "message": {"role": "assistant", "content": "\n\nYes, this is a test."},
                "metadata": {"finish_reason": "stop"},
            }
        ],
        "metadata": {
            "input_tokens": 13,
            "output_tokens": 7,
            "total_tokens": 20,
            "model": "gpt-3.5-turbo-0301",
            "route_type": "llm/v1/chat",
        },

>     }

Reviewer 2: I think we can remove this and instead tell users that they can also make REST requests & link them to the REST section

        },
    }

Step 8: Send Requests Using the Client API
------------------------------------------
Here's an example of how to send a completions request using the ``MlflowGatewayClient`` API:

.. code-block:: python

    from mlflow.gateway.client import MlflowGatewayClient

    client = MlflowGatewayClient(gateway_uri="http://localhost:5000")

    response = client.query(
        "completions_route", {"prompt": "Why don't we ever tell secrets on a farm?"}
    )

    print(response)

**Note:** Remember to change the uri definition to the actual uri of your Gateway server.

The response to this will have the following structure (and not necessarily the same continuation text):

.. code-block:: python

    {
        "candidates": [
            {
                "text": "\n\nBecause the potatoes have eyes, the corn has ears, and the beans stalk.",
                "metadata": {"finish_reason": "stop"},
            }
        ],
        "metadata": {
            "input_tokens": 10,
            "output_tokens": 13,
            "total_tokens": 23,
            "model": "gpt-3.5-turbo-0301",
            "route_type": "llm/v1/completions",
        },

>     }

Reviewer 2: I think we can remove this and instead tell users that they can also make `MlflowGatewayClient` requests and link them to the MLflow Python Client section

.. _gateway-concepts:

Concepts
========

There are several concepts that are referred to within the MLflow AI Gateway APIs, the configuration definitions, examples, and documentation.
Becoming familiar with these terms will help in configuring new endpoints (routes) and ease the use of the interface APIs for the AI Gateway.

.. _providers:

Providers
---------
The MLflow AI Gateway is designed to support a variety of model providers.
A provider represents the source of the machine learning models, such as OpenAI, Anthropic, and so on.
Each provider has its specific characteristics and configurations that are encapsulated within the model part of a route in the MLflow AI Gateway.

Supported Provider Models
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The table below presents a non-exhaustive list of models and a corresponding route type within the MLflow AI Gateway.
With the rapid development of LLMs, there is no guarantee that this list will be up to date at all times. However, the associations listed
below can be used as a helpful guide when configuring a given route for any newly released model types as they become available with a given provider.

> .. list-table::

Reviewer: <img width="1009" alt="image" src="https://github.com/mlflow/mlflow/assets/17039389/9553bb2b-3fd3-4169-990e-dbeca4c4cd04">

✓ and ✗ almost look the same. Can we use differenct icons or yes and no?

Author: I didn't want to introduce the emoji dependency into sphinx (I'm terrified of how unstable it might be for the build process) so I needed to use the Unicode characters, which I agree look a little hard to read with our CSS. 
I'll change to "yes" and "no" instead.

Reviewer 2: yes and no look great

FastAPI Documentation ("/docs")
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

FastAPI, the framework used for building the MLflow AI Gateway, provides an automatic interactive API
documentation interface, which is accessible at the "/docs" endpoint (e.g., "http://my.gateway:9000/docs").
This interactive interface is very handy for exploring and testing the available API endpoints.

As a convenience, accessing the root URL (e.g., "http://my.gateway:9000") redirects to this "/docs" endpoint.

Examples of Post Requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
You can use the POST request to send a query to a specific route.
To send a query to a specific route, append the route name to the routes endpoint, and include the
data to be sent in the body of the request. The structure of this data will depend on the specific model the route is configured for.

For instance, to send a query to the completions route, you might use the following command:

.. code-block:: bash

    curl -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{"prompt": "It is a truth universally acknowledged"}' http://my.gateway:9000/gateway/routes/completions/invocations

> 

Reviewer: /ai wrap this curl command using `\`

This will return a JSON object with the response from the completions model, which is usually the continuation of the text provided as a prompt.

**Note:** Please remember to replace "http://my.gateway:9000" with the URL of your actual Gateway Server.

MLflow Python Client APIs
-------------------------
``MLflowGatewayClient`` is the user-facing client API that is used to interact with the MLflow AI Gateway.
It abstracts the HTTP requests to the Gateway via a simple, easy-to-use Python API.

The fluent API is a higher-level interface that supports setting the Gateway URI once and using simple functions to interact with the AI Gateway Server.

.. _gateway_client_api:

Client API
----------

To use the ``MLflowGatewayClient`` API, see the below examples for the available API methods:

1. Initialization

.. code-block:: python

>     from mlflowgateway import MlflowGatewayClient

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    from mlflow.gateway import MlflowGatewayClient
```

    gateway_client = MlflowGatewayClient("http://my.gateway:8888")

2. Listing all configured routes on the Gateway: ``search_routes()``

The ``search_routes`` method returns a list of all configured and initialized ``Route`` data for the MLflow AI Gateway server.

.. code-block:: python

    routes = gateway_client.search_routes()
    for route in routes:
        print(route)

Sensitive configuration data from the server configuration file is not returned.

> 3. Querying a particular route: ``query(route: str, data: Dict[str, Any]) -> Dict[str, Any]``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Querying a particular route:
```

Do we need `query(route: ...)`?

> The ``query`` method submits a query to a configured provider route.

Reviewer: Can we add a link to `query`?

Here are some examples for how you might use curl to interact with the Gateway:

1. Getting information about a particular route: /routes/{name}
This endpoint returns a serialized representation of the Route data structure.
This provides information about the name and type, as well as the model details for the requested route endpoint.

Sensitive configuration data from the server configuration file is not returned.

.. code-block:: bash

    curl -X GET http://my.gateway:8888/routes/embeddings

2. Listing all configured routes on the Gateway: /routes

This endpoint returns a list of all configured and initialized Route data for the MLflow AI Gateway server.

.. code-block:: bash

    curl -X GET http://my.gateway:8888/routes

Sensitive configuration data from the server configuration file is not returned.

3. Querying a particular route: /query/{route}
This endpoint allows you to submit a query to a configured provider route. The data structure you send in the query depends on the route. Here are examples for the "completions", "chat", and "embeddings" routes:

* ``Completions``

.. code-block:: bash

>     curl -X POST http://my.gateway:8888/query/completions -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{"prompt": "Describe the probability distribution of first generation decay chain fission byproducts from a pressurized water nuclear reactor that uses 70% U-235 and 30% U-238"}'

Reviewer: Can we use a shorter prompt?

------------------------------------------

Here's an example of how to send a chat request using the ``fluent`` API:

.. code-block:: python

    from mlflow.gateway import query, set_gateway_uri

    set_gateway_uri(gateway_uri="http://localhost:5000")

    response = query(
        "chat",
        {"messages": [{"role": "user", "content": "What is the best day of the week?"}]},
    )

    print(response)

**Note:** Remember to change the uri definition to the actual uri of your Gateway server.

The returned response will be in this data structure (the actual content and token values will likely be different):

.. code-block:: python

    {
        "candidates": [
            {
                "message": {
                    "role": "assistant",
                    "content": "\n\nIt's hard to say what the best day of the week is.",
                },
                "metadata": {"finish_reason": "stop"},
            }
        ],
        "metadata": {
            "input_tokens": 13,
            "output_tokens": 15,
            "total_tokens": 28,
            "model": "gpt-3.5-turbo-0301",
            "route_type": "llm/v1/chat",
        },
    }

> Step 8: Send Requests Using the Client API

Reviewer 2: Can we add a Step 9: Try out different models and show an example of how to add another model from another provider and then link to the gateway configuration section & gateway additional configuration details section?

------------------------------------------

> See the :ref:`MLflowGatewayClient <gateway_client_api>` section for further information.

Reviewer 2: Nit: This isn't the name of a section. I think this should be 

```suggestion
See the :ref:`gateway_client_api` section for further information.
```

            name: gpt-4
            config:
              openai_api_base: https://api.openai.com/v1
              openai_api_key: $OPENAI_API_KEY

In the above configuration, ``openai`` is the `provider` for the model.

As of now, the MLflow AI Gateway supports the following providers:

* **openai**: This is used for models offered by `OpenAI <https://platform.openai.com/>`_ and the `Azure <https://learn.microsoft.com/en-gb/azure/cognitive-services/openai/>`_ integrations for Azure OpenAI and Azure OpenAI with AAD.
* **anthropic**: This is used for models offered by `Anthropic <https://docs.anthropic.com/claude/docs>`_.
* **cohere**: This is used for models offered by `Cohere <https://docs.cohere.com/docs>`_.

More providers are being added continually. Check the latest version of the MLflow AI Gateway Docs for the
most up-to-date list of supported providers.

Remember, the provider you specify must be one that the MLflow AI Gateway supports. If the provider
is not supported, the Gateway will return an error when trying to route requests to that provider.

Routes
------

`Routes` are central to how the MLflow AI Gateway functions. Each route acts as a proxy endpoint for the

> user, forwarding requests to the underlying `model` and `provider` specified in the configuration file.

Reviewer 2: Nit: can we make "`model`" a section link to the next section titled "Models"?

Here's an example of a route configuration:

.. code-block:: yaml

    routes:
        - name: completions
          type: chat/completions
          model:
            provider: openai
            name: gpt-3.5-turbo
            config:
              openai_api_base: https://api.openai.com/v1
              openai_api_key: $OPENAI_API_KEY

In the example above, a request sent to the completions route would be forwarded to the
``gpt-3.5-turbo`` model provided by ``openai``.

The routes in the configuration file can be updated at any time, and the MLflow AI Gateway will
automatically update its available routes without requiring a restart. This feature provides you
with the flexibility to add, remove, or modify routes as your needs change. It enables 'hot-swapping'
of routes, providing a seamless experience for any applications or services that interact with the MLflow AI Gateway.

When defining routes in the configuration file, ensure that each name is unique to prevent conflicts.
Duplicate route names will raise an ``MlflowException``.

Models
------

> The ``model`` section within a ``route`` specifies which model is to be used for generating responses.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The ``model`` section within a ``route`` specifies which model to use for generating responses.
```

> This configuration block needs to contain a ``name`` field which is used to specify the exact model instance to be used.

Reviewer 2: It also needs to contain a ``provider`` field. Can we mention that briefly here and link to the above "Providers" section?

Different endpoint types are often associated with specific models.

> For instance, the `llm/v1/chat` and `llm/v1/completions` endpoints are generally associated with
> conversational models, while `llm/v1/embeddings` endpoints would typically be associated with

Reviewer 2: Nit: Italic rendering is hard to read

```suggestion
For instance, the ``llm/v1/chat`` and ``llm/v1/completions`` endpoints are generally associated with
conversational models, while ``llm/v1/embeddings`` endpoints would typically be associated with
```

Configuring the AI Gateway
==========================

The MLflow AI Gateway service relies on a user-provided configuration file, written in YAML,
that defines the routes and providers available to the service. The configuration file dictates
how the gateway interacts with various language model providers and determines the end-points that
users can access.

AI Gateway Configuration
------------------------

The configuration file includes a series of sections, each representing a unique route.
Each route section has a name, a type, and a model specification, which includes the model
provider, name, and configuration details. The configuration section typically contains the base
URL for the API and an environment variable for the API key.

Here is an example of a single-route configuration:

.. code-block:: yaml

    routes:
      - name: chat
        type: llm/v1/chat
        model:
          provider: openai
          name: gpt-3.5-turbo
          config:
            openai_api_base: https://api.openai.com/v1
            openai_api_key: $OPENAI_API_KEY

In this example, we define a route named ``chat`` that corresponds to the ``llm/v1/chat`` type, which

> will use the ``gpt-3.5-turbo`` model from `OpenAI` to return query responses from the `OpenAI` service.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
will use the ``gpt-3.5-turbo`` model from OpenAI to return query responses from the OpenAI service.
```

> The beauty of the Gateway Configuration lies in its flexibility and ease of use.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Gateway configuration is easily to update.
```

> If the configuration file is updated at the target location, the MLflow AI Gateway service can easily update
> routes, allowing new providers or model types to be incorporated without requiring changes to
> the applications interfacing with the gateway. By updating the configuration file that defines the routes,
> the MLflow AI Gateway can be updated with zero disruption or downtime.
> This allows for simple, seamless changes to the underlying models and providers while keeping
> your applications steady and reliable.

Reviewer 2: I think we can simplify the phrasing quite a bit.

```suggestion
Simply edit the configuration file and save your changes, and the MLflow AI Gateway service will automatically
update the routes with zero disruption or down time. This allows you to try out new providers or model types while keeping your applications steady and reliable.
```

In order to define an API KEY for a given provider, there are three primary options:

1. Directly include it in the YAML configuration file.
2. Use an environment variable to store the API key and reference it in the YAML configuration file.
3. Define your API key in a file and reference the location of that key-bearing file within the YAML configuration file.

If you choose to include the API key directly, replace ``$OPENAI_API_KEY`` in the YAML file with your
actual API key.

.. warning::

    The MLflow AI Gateway service provides direct access to billed external LLM services. It is strongly recommended to restrict access to this server. See the section on :ref:`security <gateway_security>` for guidance.

If you prefer to use an environment variable (recommended), you can define it in your shell
environment. For example:

.. code-block:: bash

     export OPENAI_API_KEY="your_openai_api_key"

> **Note:** Replace "your_openai_api_key" with your actual `OpenAI` API key.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Note:** Replace "your_openai_api_key" with your actual OpenAI API key.
```

            openai_api_version: "2023-05-15"

.. note::

    Azure OpenAI has disctinct features as compared with the direct OpenAI service. For an overview, please see `the comparison documentation <https://learn.microsoft.com/en-gb/azure/cognitive-services/openai/how-to/switching-endpoints>`_.

For specifying an API key, there are three options:

1. (Preferred) Use an environment variable to store the API key and reference it in the YAML configuration file. This is denoted by a ``$`` symbol before the name of the environment variable.
2. (Preferred) Define the API key in a file and reference the location of that key-bearing file within the YAML configuration file.
3. Directly include it in the YAML configuration file.

.. important::

    The use of environment variables or file-based keys is recommended for better security practices. If the API key is directly included in the configuration file, it should be ensured that the file is securely stored and appropriately access controlled.
    Please ensure that the configuration file is stored in a secure location as it contains sensitive API keys.

Querying the AI Gateway
=======================

> Once the MLflow AI Gateway server has been configured and started, it is ready to receive traffic from users.

Reviewer 2: I think this is where we should document the standard gateway parameters and ranges from https://docs.google.com/document/d/1AEDlqSWh4n0j1Ue-llk03aRz7-xBK4P4Zh-Yvo1uhnI/edit#heading=h.5xlyhqfr1sqd and then also indicate that provider-specific parameters can also be specified & include an example

FastAPI Documentation ("/docs")
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

FastAPI, the framework used for building the MLflow AI Gateway, provides an automatic interactive API
documentation interface, which is accessible at the "/docs" endpoint (e.g., ``http://my.gateway:9000/docs``).
This interactive interface is very handy for exploring and testing the available API endpoints.

As a convenience, accessing the root URL (e.g., ``http://my.gateway:9000``) redirects to this "/docs" endpoint.

Examples of Post Requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
You can use the POST request to send a query to a specific route.
To send a query to a specific route, append the route name to the routes endpoint, and include the
data to be sent in the body of the request. The structure of this data will depend on the specific model the route is configured for.

For instance, to send a query to the completions route, you might use the following command:

.. code-block:: bash

    curl -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
      -d '{"prompt": "It is a truth universally acknowledged"}' \

>       http://my.gateway:9000/gateway/routes/completions/invocations

Author: ```suggestion
      http://my.gateway:9000/gateway/completions/invocations
```

This will return a JSON object with the response from the completions model, which is usually the continuation of the text provided as a prompt.

**Note:** Please remember to replace ``http://my.gateway:9000`` with the URL of your actual Gateway Server.

> MLflow Python Client APIs

Reviewer 2: Can we add an "MLflow Models" section between this section and "REST APIs" that shows users how to query the gateway within an MLflow custom pyfunc model and how to set the gateway URI at deployment time using the MLFLOW_GATEWAY_URI environment variable? Here's an example from Databricks: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1HP5Kblja6Z5wM9mEeRVY6ZExOX7B59U_ZCrTdip99jg/edit#heading=h.yco7e24lxaen

-------------------------
:class:`MlflowGatewayClient <mlflow.gateway.client.MlflowGatewayClient>` is the user-facing client API that is used to interact with the MLflow AI Gateway.
It abstracts the HTTP requests to the Gateway via a simple, easy-to-use Python API.

The fluent API is a higher-level interface that supports setting the Gateway URI once and using simple functions to interact with the AI Gateway Server.

.. _gateway_client_api:

> Client API
> ----------

Reviewer 2: This should be a subsection, right?

```suggestion
Client API
########
```

To use the ``MLflowGatewayClient`` API, see the below examples for the available API methods:

1. Initialization

.. code-block:: python

    from mlflow.gateway import MlflowGatewayClient

    gateway_client = MlflowGatewayClient("http://my.gateway:8888")

2. Listing all configured routes on the Gateway:

The :meth:`search_routes() <mlflow.gateway.client.MlflowGatewayClient.search_routes>` method returns a list of all configured and initialized ``Route`` data for the MLflow AI Gateway server.

.. code-block:: python

    routes = gateway_client.search_routes()
    for route in routes:
        print(route)

Sensitive configuration data from the server configuration file is not returned.

3. Querying a particular route:

The :meth:`query() <mlflow.gateway.client.MlflowGatewayClient.query>` method submits a query to a configured provider route.
The data structure you send in the query depends on the route.

.. code-block:: python

    response = gateway_client.query(
        "chat", {"messages": [{"role": "user", "content": "Tell me a joke about rabbits"}]}
    )
    print(response)

Further route types will be added in the future.

> Fluent API

Reviewer 2: This should come before client API, IMO

> Fluent API
> ----------

Reviewer 2: This should also be a subsection, right?

```suggestion
Fluent API
~~~~~~~~~~~
```

route that was configured with the ``gpt-3.5-turbo``  model.

Once the configuration file is updated, simply save your changes. The Gateway will automatically create the new route with zero downtime.

At this point, you may use the :ref:`gateway_fluent_api` to query both routes with similar prompts to decide which model performs best for your use case.

If you no longer need a route, you can delete it from the configuration YAML and save your changes. The AI Gateway will automatically remove the route.

.. _gateway-concepts:

Concepts
========

There are several concepts that are referred to within the MLflow AI Gateway APIs, the configuration definitions, examples, and documentation.
Becoming familiar with these terms will help in configuring new endpoints (routes) and ease the use of the interface APIs for the AI Gateway.

.. _providers:

Providers
---------
The MLflow AI Gateway is designed to support a variety of model providers.
A provider represents the source of the machine learning models, such as OpenAI, Anthropic, and so on.
Each provider has its specific characteristics and configurations that are encapsulated within the model part of a route in the MLflow AI Gateway.

> Supported Provider Models

Reviewer: Not a blocker, but a matrix (column: route, row: provider) might be easier to understand.

For instance, to send a query to the completions route, you might use the following command:

.. code-block:: bash

    curl -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
      -d '{"prompt": "It is a truth universally acknowledged"}' \
      http://my.gateway:9000/gateway/completions/invocations

This will return a JSON object with the response from the completions model, which is usually the continuation of the text provided as a prompt.

**Note:** Please remember to replace ``http://my.gateway:9000`` with the URL of your actual Gateway Server.

MLflow Python Client APIs
-------------------------
:class:`MlflowGatewayClient <mlflow.gateway.client.MlflowGatewayClient>` is the user-facing client API that is used to interact with the MLflow AI Gateway.
It abstracts the HTTP requests to the Gateway via a simple, easy-to-use Python API.

The fluent API is a higher-level interface that supports setting the Gateway URI once and using simple functions to interact with the AI Gateway Server.

.. _gateway_fluent_api:

Fluent API
~~~~~~~~~~
For the ``fluent`` API, here are some examples:

1. Set the Gateway uri:

> Before using the Fluent API, the gateway uri must be set via :func:`set_gateway_uri() <mlflow.gateway.set_gateway_uri>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before using the Fluent API, the gateway URI must be set via :func:`set_gateway_uri() <mlflow.gateway.set_gateway_uri>`.
```

Nit: should we uppercase `uri`?

Save this file to a location on the system that is going to be running the MLflow AI Gateway server.

Step 4: Start the Gateway Service
---------------------------------
You're now ready to start the Gateway service!

Use the MLflow AI Gateway ``start`` command and specify the path to your configuration file:

.. code-block:: sh

    mlflow gateway start --config-path config.yaml --port {port} --host {host} --workers {worker count}

If you do not specify the host, a localhost address will be used.

If you do not specify the port, port 5000 will be used.

The worker count for gunicorn defaults to 2 workers.

Step 5: Access the Interactive API Documentation
------------------------------------------------
The MLflow AI Gateway service provides an interactive API documentation endpoint that you can use to explore
and test the exposed routes. Navigate to ``http://{host}:{port}/`` (or ``http://{host}:{port}/docs``) in your browser to access it.

The docs endpoint allow for direct interaction with the routes and permits submitting actual requests to the
provider services by click on the "try it now" option within the endpoint definition entry.

> Step 6: Send Requests to Routes via REST API

Reviewer 2: Can we move this to Step 8 (after fluent and client)?

--------------------------------------------
You can now send requests to the exposed routes.
See the :ref:`REST examples <gateway_rest_api>` for guidance on request formatting.

Step 7: Send Requests Using the Fluent API

> ------------------------------------------

Reviewer 2: Can we also include a link to the "Querying the AI Gateway" section and tell users that they can see the supported query parameters there?

> Here's an example of how to send a chat request using the ``fluent`` API:

Reviewer 2: Can we make "fluent" a link?

Step 8: Send Requests Using the Client API
------------------------------------------
See the :ref:`gateway_client_api` section for further information.

Step 9: Compare Provider Models
-------------------------------
Here's an example of adding a new model from a provider to determine which model instance is better for a given use case.

Firstly, update the :ref:`MLflow AI Gateway config <gateway_configuration>` YAML file with the additional route definition to test:

.. code-block:: yaml

    routes:
      - name: completions
        type: llm/v1/completions
        model:
          provider: openai
          name: gpt-3.5-turbo
          config:
            openai_api_base: https://api.openai.com/v1
            openai_api_key: $OPENAI_API_KEY
      - name: completions-gpt4
        type: llm/v1/completions
        model:
          provider: openai
          name: gpt-4
          config:
            openai_api_base: https://api.openai.com/v1
            openai_api_key: $OPENAI_API_KEY

This updated configuration adds a new completions route ``completions-gpt4`` while still preserving the original ``completions``
route that was configured with the ``gpt-3.5-turbo``  model.

> Once this configuration file is updated, overwrite the existing file location that contained the ``config.yaml`` used when starting
> the AI Gateway server. The Gateway will automatically restart with the new route available.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once the configuration file is updated, simply save your changes. The Gateway will automatically create the new route with zero downtime.
```

At this point, you may use the :ref:`gateway_fluent_api` to query both routes with similar prompts to decide which model performs best for your use case.

> If a certain model type is determined to be a new standard, updating the AI Gateway to remove the unwanted route that was evaluated can be done by
> removing the route definition from the configuration YAML and writing the updated configuration file to the server's monitored config file location.
> The unwanted route will be removed from the server automatically.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you no longer need a route, you can delete it from the configuration YAML and save your changes. The AI Gateway will automatically remove the route.
```

The configuration file includes a series of sections, each representing a unique route.
Each route section has a name, a type, and a model specification, which includes the model
provider, name, and configuration details. The configuration section typically contains the base
URL for the API and an environment variable for the API key.

Here is an example of a single-route configuration:

.. code-block:: yaml

    routes:
      - name: chat
        type: llm/v1/chat
        model:
          provider: openai
          name: gpt-3.5-turbo
          config:
            openai_api_base: https://api.openai.com/v1
            openai_api_key: $OPENAI_API_KEY

In this example, we define a route named ``chat`` that corresponds to the ``llm/v1/chat`` type, which
will use the ``gpt-3.5-turbo`` model from OpenAI to return query responses from the OpenAI service.

The Gateway configuration is very easy to update.
Simply edit the configuration file and save your changes, and the MLflow AI Gateway service will automatically
update the routes with zero disruption or down time. This allows you to try out new providers or model types while keeping your applications steady and reliable.

> In order to define an API KEY for a given provider, there are three primary options:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to define an API key for a given provider, there are three primary options:
```

- **top_k** (Supported by Anthropic, Cohere): This parameter is used for "Top-K sampling", a text generation method where the K most likely next words are filtered and the probability mass is redistributed among only those K next words. This parameter is passed through directly to providers that support it, but is not a standard parameter of the AI Gateway API interfaces.

- **logit_bias** (Supported by OpenAI, Cohere): This parameter allows you to add or subtract from the logits of the tokens before softmax, effectively making certain tokens more or less likely to appear. This parameter is passed through directly to providers that support it, but is not a standard parameter of the AI Gateway API interfaces.

- **frequency_penalty** (Supported by OpenAI, Cohere): This parameter controls the penalty for using frequent tokens in the generated output. The higher the value, the less likely the model is to use common words. This parameter is passed through directly to providers that support it, but is not a standard parameter of the AI Gateway API interfaces.

> - **presence_penalty** (Supported by OpenAI, Cohere): This parameter controls the penalty for new tokens in the generated output. The higher the value, the more the model tends to repeat itself. This parameter is passed through directly to providers that support it, but is not a standard parameter of the AI Gateway API interfaces.

Reviewer 2: No need to call these out explicitly, we can just say that users can pass any additional parameters they want except `stream=True/False`, such as `top_k` (Anthropic, Cohere), `logit_bias` (OpenAI, Cohere), and `presence_penalty` (OpenAI, Cohere)

~~~~~~~~~~

To use the ``MLflowGatewayClient`` API, see the below examples for the available API methods:

1. Initialization

.. code-block:: python

    from mlflow.gateway import MlflowGatewayClient

    gateway_client = MlflowGatewayClient("http://my.gateway:8888")

2. Listing all configured routes on the Gateway:

The :meth:`search_routes() <mlflow.gateway.client.MlflowGatewayClient.search_routes>` method returns a list of all configured and initialized ``Route`` data for the MLflow AI Gateway server.

.. code-block:: python

    routes = gateway_client.search_routes()
    for route in routes:
        print(route)

Sensitive configuration data from the server configuration file is not returned.

3. Querying a particular route:

The :meth:`query() <mlflow.gateway.client.MlflowGatewayClient.query>` method submits a query to a configured provider route.
The data structure you send in the query depends on the route.

.. code-block:: python

    response = gateway_client.query(
        "chat", {"messages": [{"role": "user", "content": "Tell me a joke about rabbits"}]}
    )
    print(response)

Further route types will be added in the future.

MLflow Models
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> The ``Mlflow AI Gateway`` is not used exclusively for interactive interaction. It can also be employed as a production service for automated jobs.
> The example below demonstrates how to use an AI Gateway server from within a custom ``pyfunc`` implementation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can also build and deploy MLflow Models that call the MLflow AI Gateway.
The example below demonstrates how to use an AI Gateway server from within a custom ``pyfunc`` model.
```

.. note::
    The custom ``Model`` shown in the example below is utilizing environment variables for the AI Gateway server's uri. These values can also be set manually within the
    definition or can be applied via :func:`mlflow.gateway.get_gateway_uri` after the uri has been set. For the example below, the value for ``MLFLOW_GATEWAY_URI`` is
    ``http://127.0.0.1:5000/``. For an actual deployment use case, this value would be set to the configured and production deployment server.

.. code-block:: python

    import os
    import pandas as pd
    import mlflow

    class Model(mlflow.pyfunc.PythonModel):
        # Define the request mechanism by using the REST API
        def request(self, route, data):
            import os
            import requests

            url = os.environ["MLFLOW_GATEWAY_URI"] + f"gateway/{route}/invocations"

            import json

            response = requests.post(
                url=url,
                json=data,
            )
            response = json.loads(response.text)

>             return response

Reviewer 2: can we use `MlflowGatewayClient` instead of `requests.post()`? The example code I linked used `requests.post` because we hadn't released gateway client and couldn't install it on serving yet. By the time we publish the docs, that won't be a problem

Reviewer 2: we can construct the client inside predict() and then pass the predict function directly to mlflow.pyfunc.log_model() as python_model ; we don’t even need the request()  method or a pyfunc wrapper class

This will simplify the example even further

Reviewer 2: We should also add a model signature, i.e. by calling `infer_signature()`

        def predict(self, ctx, inp):
            import os
            import mlflow

            # Query a particular route for batch operations at a given temperature
            responses = []

>             for _, row in inp.iterrows():
>                 prompt = row["prompt"]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            for prompt in inp["prompt"]:
```

Author: The example is about to be completely changed :)

                response = self.request(
                    route="completions-claude",
                    data={
                        "prompt": prompt,
                        "temperature": 0.7,
                    },
                )
                responses.append(response["candidates"][0]["text"])
            return responses

    # Log the custom pyfunc model to MLflow
    with mlflow.start_run():
        model_info = mlflow.pyfunc.log_model(
            python_model=Model(),
            registered_model_name="anthropic_completions",
            artifact_path="anthropic_completions",
        )

    # Use the Model to interface with MLflow AI Gateway for batch inference
    df = pd.DataFrame.from_dict(
        {
            "prompt": [
                "Tell me about Jupiter",
                "Tell me about Saturn",
                "Tell me all about Mars",
            ]
        }
    )
    print(mlflow.pyfunc.load_model(model_info.model_uri).predict(df))

> In practice, an authentication mechanism should be created to control the access of the user (or agent) interfacing with this model to the AI Gateway.

Reviewer 2: I think we can remove this. Would be great to tell users that they can evaluate this model with `mlflow.evaluate()`, call it in `mlflow.pyfunc.spark_udf()`, or deploy (link to deployment docs) just like any other MLflow Model :)
